The Student Performance dataset contains information on student achievement in secondary education in Portugal. It includes various attributes such as demographics, family background, academic and behavioral factors, as well as the student’s final grade in the course.

Student’s academic performance is determined by all these above mentioned factors as they all influence ones life. The school’s directors of studies cannot make accurate guess of how well student is going to pass the exams due to variety of these factors and their combinations. In addition, people are commonly influenced by unconscious bias, making such decisions based on prior experience, thinking patterns, self-determined assumptions, interpretations. It makes directors’ guesses biased and inaccurate.

However, one may rise the following issue: why is it actually important to predict final exam score of a student? The better average score of students is, the more prestigious university they can apply to after graduation. This will promote the school, raise governmental investment to this exact educational unit, which will help raising salaries, improving infrastructure, etc. By being able to accurately forecast the score, directors of studies may help certain number of students by, for example, offering them a session with school’s psychologist in case their poor academic performance is driven by certain personal matters.

The goal of this research is to develop a predictive model that can forecast a student’s final grade in the course based on their demographics, family background, academic and behavioral factors. By understanding which factors contribute to student success or failure, educators and policymakers can develop targeted interventions to improve student outcomes and promote academic success.
